- [Instructor] Let's learn how to configure
a Spring Integration message flow
and how to integrate that message flow
into a larger Spring application.
Now configuring a message flow in Spring Integration
looks a whole lot like configuring
any other project component in Spring.
You can use XML configuration files
for an externalized metadata type of approach,
or you can use inline Java based annotations.
Both approaches have their pros and cons
with trade-offs that are the same for Spring Integration
as they are for Spring in general.
In this training course, we will use XML exclusively
for our dependency injection configuration
because it gives us a more centralized
and accessible way to visualize our structure
with fewer files to flip through.
Here is an example of a Spring integration
configuration file.
Notice the inclusion of the integration schema
here in the outer beans element,
along with namespace specific elements
such as channels and end points.
It is a common need to integrate your modular message flows
into a larger parent Spring application.
And Spring gives several options for doing this,
including application properties,
command line arguments, inline coding and XML imports.
I favor import statements
to at least get your development ball rolling.
Let's go into our code editor now.
I am using IntelliJ,
and have look at our application
that we're building together.
This application is called Dashboard.
At this point mostly it's a boiler plate spring boot app,
and let's make sure that we are checking out
the code for this exercise.
Now running our Spring boot application
looks something like this.
It's a simulated dashboard in which we have four components,
a grid status, KinetECO news, power usage and tech support.
This dashboard simulates a consumer power grid dashboard
and each of these four elements of the dashboard
corresponds to a Spring Integration message flow
that we're going to build together.
Our challenge in this exercise
is to integrate into our Spring boot application,
that is already running.
We want to integrate the four message flow components
that we're going to build together.
Let's have a look first
at our springbootapplication.XML file.
This file is a typical
Spring application configuration file.
There you see between lines 11 and 22
are our configuration for our application.
And the challenge we have
is we have four message flow integrations
that we want to incorporate into the parent.
Let's have a look for instance, at gridstatus.XML.
This configuration file is a Spring Integration
configuration file.
Notice in line five, the integration namespace import.
That's really important to use
because at runtime it prevents conflicts
between elements that may be named the same
across different packages.
However, there's also a really excellent motivation
for a developer to use namespaces,
which is that you can leverage the IDE's capability
when you use that namespace.
I-N-T to show us right there dynamically,
all of the Spring Integration elements that are available
to us in this configuration file.
Right now we're not actually doing that,
but I wanted to point that out to you
and emphasize the importance of using
the Spring Integration namespace.
The other thing I want to draw your attention to,
is in this gridstatus.XML file,
we have a test bean configured
and we've called it test message flow imports.
We're going to ensure that we get this message flow
properly integrated.
So let's do that together.
Let's go into our unit tests.
It's in a file called dashboard application tests
and let's configure a test.
And this test is going to load our application context.
This would be our Spring boot application parent context,
the application.XML file that we looked at a moment ago.
And then here in the try block we're going to load up
that context and we're going to try to pull in
that test bean that we have configured
inside the message flow configuration file.
Now, in order to make this test run properly,
we need to go into our parent configuration
fileapplication.XML and use a typical XML import statement
to bring in the grid status file.
And we're going to qualify it with the sub-directory
that it lives in.
Close our element while we're at it.
Let's just do the other three
so that we have all four message flows imported.
Now we believe we have imported
all of our four Spring Integration message flows
into our Spring boot parent application.
Let's prove it by attempting to run this test
that we set up.
Our test is running, hooray.
We got success.
Our message flows, our Spring Integration message flows
are now imported into our Spring boot
parent application context.